blech_clust/blogs/blech_clust_266.md, before:

# Boosting the Clarity of Blech Clust Scripts with Logging

![Visual representation of 20 add logging for all scripts](images/20250303152357_Create_a_technical_illustration_for_a_blog_post_ab.png)


**Date:** December 05, 2024

**Contributors:** Abuzar Mahmood, abuzarmahmood

**PR:** [https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/266](https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/266)

## Introduction

Anyone who's spent hours debugging a script knows the frustration of trying to figure out what went wrong with limited information. For the Katz Lab's `blech_clust` project, this pain point has been addressed with a comprehensive logging system that brings much-needed visibility to script execution.

## Changes Overview

This update focused on two key files: `blech_clust.py` and `utils/blech_utils.py`. The changes introduce a robust logging framework that captures output from all scripts, making troubleshooting and monitoring significantly easier.

The centerpiece of this update is the new `Tee` class that elegantly captures both stdout and stderr, redirecting them to log files while still displaying them in the console.

## Technical Highlights

The `Tee` class in `utils/blech_utils.py` solves a common problem in scientific computing - how to capture output from long-running processes that might be executed in the background or via scheduled jobs:

```python
class Tee:
    """Tee output to both stdout/stderr and a log file"""
    def __init__(self, data_dir, name='output.log'):
        self.log_path = os.path.join(data_dir, name)
        self.file = open(self.log_path, 'a')
        self.stdout = sys.stdout
        self.stderr = sys.stderr
        sys.stdout = self
        sys.stderr = self
    ...
```

In `blech_clust.py`, the team replaced basic print statements with more informative log messages that provide context and improve readability:

```diff
-            print(f'Data already present: {found_list}')
+            reload_msg = f'Data already present: {found_list}' + '\n' +\
+                        'Reload data? (yes/y/n/no) ::: '
             reload_data_str, continue_bool = entry_checker(
-                    msg='Reload data? (yes/y/n/no) ::: ',
+                    msg= reload_msg,
                     check_func=lambda x: x in ['y', 'yes', 'n', 'no'],
                     fail_response='Please enter (yes/y/n/no)')
```

## Impact and Benefits

This logging system brings several practical benefits to researchers using the toolkit:

1. Easier troubleshooting of failed runs, with complete logs showing exactly where things went wrong
2. Better visibility into long-running processes
3. Improved ability to share diagnostic information when seeking help
4. Historical record of script execution for reproducibility

## Conclusion

The addition of comprehensive logging represents a significant quality-of-life improvement for `blech_clust` users. While not as flashy as new analysis features, this infrastructure enhancement addresses a fundamental need in scientific computing - knowing what your code is actually doing. It's the kind of thoughtful improvement that makes a toolkit truly usable in real-world research settings.

Commit message:

docs(blogs): update blog posts with latest changes and visuals
- Revised content in blog posts to better reflect recent developments, including automation and enhancements in `blech_clust`.
- Added new images to visually support updates in the blog entries, enhancing clarity and engagement.
- Introduced improved descriptions of technical changes to provide a clearer understanding of project evolution and improvements.

blech_clust/blogs/blech_clust_266.md, after:

# Boosting the Clarity of Blech Clust Scripts with Logging

![Visual representation of 20 add logging for all scripts](images/20250303152357_Create_a_technical_illustration_for_a_blog_post_ab.png)


**Date:** *December 05, 2024*

**Contributors:** *Abuzar Mahmood (aider), abuzarmahmood, Abuzar Mahmood*

**PR:** *[https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/266](https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/266)*

## Introduction

In the realm of software development, logging is a critical tool for monitoring and debugging applications. It provides valuable insights about the application's behavior and health in different environments. This blog post examines an important update to the Katz Lab's `blech_clust` project that integrates logging into all scripts.

## Changes Overview

This update involved changes in two files: `blech_clust.py` and `utils/blech_utils.py`. The primary additions include the introduction of the `Tee` class to capture stdout/stderr and integrate it with `pipeline_graph_check`. Also, the formatting of log statements was improved to enhance readability.

## Technical Highlights

The `Tee` class, newly introduced in `utils/blech_utils.py`, is used to redirect the output to both stdout/stderr and a log file simultaneously. This capability is invaluable in scripts running in the background or processes launched via cron jobs, where the console output is not readily available.

```python
class Tee:
    """Tee output to both stdout/stderr and a log file"""
    def __init__(self, data_dir, name='output.log'):
        self.log_path = os.path.join(data_dir, name)
        self.file = open(self.log_path, 'a')
        self.stdout = sys.stdout
        self.stderr = sys.stderr
        sys.stdout = self
        sys.stderr = self
    ...
```
In `blech_clust.py`, changes were made to replace print statements with log statements, enhancing the script's readability and clarity, especially when diagnosing issues.

```diff
-            print(f'Data already present: {found_list}')
+            reload_msg = f'Data already present: {found_list}' + '\n' +\
+                        'Reload data? (yes/y/n/no) ::: '
             reload_data_str, continue_bool = entry_checker(
-                    msg='Reload data? (yes/y/n/no) ::: ',
+                    msg= reload_msg,
                     check_func=lambda x: x in ['y', 'yes', 'n', 'no'],
                     fail_response='Please enter (yes/y/n/no)')
```

## Impact and Benefits

Enhanced logging will significantly improve the debugging process and monitoring of the `blech_clust` scripts. It will provide developers with real-time visibility into the behavior of the scripts, making it easier to identify and rectify issues.

## Conclusion

Incorporating logging into all scripts of the `blech_clust` project is a laudable improvement. It not only makes it easier to monitor the scripts but also provides valuable insights for debugging. This enhancement is a testament to the continuous efforts of the contributors to maintain high-quality, robust code.
