blech_clust/blogs/blech_clust_127.md, before:

# Automating Clustering: A Leap in Data Processing 

![Visual representation of 26 auto clustering](images/20250303151335_Create_a_technical_illustration_for_a_blog_post_ab.png)


**Date: December 07, 2023**

**Contributors: Abuzar Mahmood, abuzarmahmood**

**PR: [https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/127](https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/127)**

## Introduction

The `blech_clust` project just got a major upgrade with changes that dramatically simplify and automate data clustering. This pull request, titled "26 auto clustering" by Abuzar Mahmood, represents months of work to streamline what was previously a labor-intensive process.

## Key Technical Aspects

The PR introduces changes across five files, with the centerpiece being a sophisticated automated sorting script. The improvements include fully functional auto-sorting capabilities, integration of Bayesian Gaussian Mixture (BGM) models as an alternative to standard GMM in `blech_process`, and several critical bug fixes.

Here's a look at the core of the new automated sorting script:

```python
# Get directory where the hdf5 file sits, and change to that directory
# Get name of directory with the data files
# Create argument parser
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
        description = 'Spike extraction and sorting script')
parser.add_argument('--dir-name',  '-d', 
                    help = 'Directory containing data files')
parser.add_argument('--show-plot', '-p', 
        help = 'Show waveforms while iterating (True/False)', default = 'True')
parser.add_argument('--sort-file', '-f', help = 'CSV with sorted units',
                    default = None)
args = parser.parse_args()

##############################
# Instantiate sort_file_handler
this_sort_file_handler = post_utils.sort_file_handler(args.sort_file)

if args.dir_name is not None: 
    metadata_handler = imp_metadata([[],args.dir_name])
else:
    metadata_handler = imp_metadata([])
```

## Impact and Benefits

The auto-sorting capability is a game-changer for the project. What previously required careful manual intervention can now run automatically, not only saving time but also reducing the potential for human error in the clustering process.

The addition of Bayesian Gaussian Mixture models provides more sophisticated statistical modeling options, particularly valuable for complex datasets where standard GMM approaches might fall short. This enhancement significantly expands the toolkit's versatility across different experimental scenarios.

One particularly useful improvement is the ability to select arbitrary cluster numbers, giving users much more flexibility in how they approach their data analysis.

## Conclusion

This PR represents a significant evolution for `blech_clust`, transforming it into a more powerful, flexible, and user-friendly tool. The automated clustering capabilities, combined with more sophisticated statistical models and numerous bug fixes, make this update particularly valuable for researchers working with complex neural data.

As development continues, these improvements provide a solid foundation for future enhancements that will further streamline neural data analysis workflows.

Commit message:

docs(blogs): update blog posts with latest changes and visuals
- Revised content in blog posts to better reflect recent developments, including automation and enhancements in `blech_clust`.
- Added new images to visually support updates in the blog entries, enhancing clarity and engagement.
- Introduced improved descriptions of technical changes to provide a clearer understanding of project evolution and improvements.

blech_clust/blogs/blech_clust_127.md, after:

# Automating Clustering: A Leap in Data Processing 

![Visual representation of 26 auto clustering](images/20250303151335_Create_a_technical_illustration_for_a_blog_post_ab.png)


**Date: December 07, 2023**

**Contributors: Abuzar Mahmood, abuzarmahmood**

**PR: [https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/127](https://github.com/katzlabbrandeis/blech_clust/pull/127)**

## Introduction

This blog post highlights the significant changes made to the `blech_clust` project, which aims to simplify and automate the process of data clustering. The changes were made in a pull request (PR) titled "26 auto clustering", authored by Abuzar Mahmood and abuzarmahmood. The PR was created on December 7, 2023. 

## Key Technical Aspects

The PR introduces various changes across five different files, with the most notable modification being the introduction of an automated sorting script. The changes include working versions of auto-sorting and auto-sort steps, integration of Bayesian Gaussian Mixture (BGM) as an alternative to regular Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) in `blech_process`, and bug fixes.

Here is a glimpse of how the new automated sorting script looks like:

```python
# Get directory where the hdf5 file sits, and change to that directory
# Get name of directory with the data files
# Create argument parser
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
        description = 'Spike extraction and sorting script')
parser.add_argument('--dir-name',  '-d', 
                    help = 'Directory containing data files')
parser.add_argument('--show-plot', '-p', 
        help = 'Show waveforms while iterating (True/False)', default = 'True')
parser.add_argument('--sort-file', '-f', help = 'CSV with sorted units',
                    default = None)
args = parser.parse_args()

##############################
# Instantiate sort_file_handler
this_sort_file_handler = post_utils.sort_file_handler(args.sort_file)

if args.dir_name is not None: 
    metadata_handler = imp_metadata([[],args.dir_name])
else:
    metadata_handler = imp_metadata([])
```

## Impact and Benefits

The introduction of auto-sorting and auto-sort steps is an important development in the project. This feature not only simplifies the clustering process but also reduces chances of erroneous results due to human error. 

Furthermore, by integrating Bayesian Gaussian Mixture as an alternative to regular GMM in `blech_process`, the project now offers more robust and flexible modeling capabilities. This integration broadens the range of use-cases `blech_clust` can effectively handle.

Moreover, the bug fixes and modifications in this PR improve the overall stability and efficiency of the project. For instance, the PR allows selection of arbitrary cluster numbers, which provides users with greater flexibility when using `blech_clust`.

## Conclusion

This PR marks a significant step forward for `blech_clust`, enhancing its efficiency, flexibility, and reliability. The integration of auto-sorting and Bayesian Gaussian Mixture models, alongside other bug fixes and improvements, provides users with a more robust and versatile tool for their data clustering needs. 

As the `blech_clust` project continues to evolve and improve, we look forward to seeing further enhancements and innovations that will continue to simplify and streamline the data clustering process.
